feat(android): logcat integration (#6543)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/android/configuration/integrations/logcat.mdx

---
title: Logcat
caseStyle: canonical
supportLevel: production
description: "Learn more about the Sentry Logcat integration for the Android SDK."
categories:
  - mobile
---

<Note>

Supported in Sentry's Android SDK version `6.17.0` and above.

Supported in Sentry Android Gradle Plugin version `3.5.0` and above.

</Note>

> The Sentry Logcat integration adds support for automatically attaching breadcrumbs to events above a minimum logging level. Only explicit log calls are captured as breadcrumbs, logs that were created by any third party aren't captured.

Reviewer: I think we can phrase this more positive.

```suggestion
The Sentry Logcat integration adds support for automatically reporting log calls above a minimum logging level as breadcrumbs. Any matching `android.Log.*` calls inside your app package are captured as breadcrumbs, including `android.Log.*` calls originating from bundled third party libraries.
```

> 

Reviewer: Could you add a screenshot similar as well here? Here's how I did it for Jetpack Compose: https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/pull/6510/files

> ## Auto-Installation With the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installation With the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin
```

### Install

To use the Logcat integration, add the Sentry Android Gradle plugin and the Sentry Android SDK (version `6.17.0` or above) in `build.gradle`:

> ```groovy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```groovy {filename:app/build.gradle}
```

buildscript {
  repositories {
    mavenCentral()
  }
}

plugins {
  id "io.sentry.android.gradle" version "{{ packages.version('sentry.java.android.gradle-plugin', '3.5.0') }}"
}

dependencies {
  implementation 'io.sentry:sentry-android:{{ packages.version('sentry.java.android', '6.17.0') }}'
}
```

> ```kotlin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```kotlin {filename:app/build.gradle.kts}
```

buildscript {
  repositories {
    mavenCentral()
  }
}

plugins {
  id("io.sentry.android.gradle") version "{{ packages.version('sentry.java.android.gradle-plugin', '3.5.0') }}"
}

dependencies {
  implementation("io.sentry:sentry-android:{{ packages.version('sentry.java.android', '6.17.0') }}")
}
```

### Configure

> Auto-instrumentation is enabled by default, so no further configuration is required. If you'd like to disable the Logcat instrumentation feature, we expose a configuration option for that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auto-instrumentation is enabled by default, so no further configuration is required. If you'd like to disable the Logcat instrumentation feature, or change the minimum log level the following options are provided:
```

```groovy
import io.sentry.android.gradle.extensions.InstrumentationFeature
import io.sentry.android.gradle.instrumentation.logcat.LogcatLevel

sentry {
  tracingInstrumentation {
    enabled = true

    logcat {
      enabled = true
      minLevel = LogcatLevel.WARNING
    }
  }
}
```

```kotlin
import java.util.EnumSet
import io.sentry.android.gradle.extensions.InstrumentationFeature
import io.sentry.android.gradle.instrumentation.logcat.LogcatLevel

sentry {
  tracingInstrumentation {
    enabled.set(true)

    logcat {
      enabled.set(true)
      minLevel(LogcatLevel.WARNING)
    }
  }
}
```

## Verify

> This snippet captures an intentional error, so you can test that everything is working as soon as you set it up:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This snippet captures an intentional error, so you can test that everything is working once you've set it up:
```

```kotlin
import androidx.appcompat.app.AppCompatActivity
import android.os.Bundle
import java.lang.Exception
import io.sentry.Sentry

class MyActivity : AppCompatActivity() {
  override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
    super.onCreate(savedInstanceState)

>     Log.w("MyTag", "Warning message.")

Reviewer: I think the import is missing for `Log`

    Sentry.captureException(Exception("My Exception"))
  }
}
```

```java
import androidx.appcompat.app.AppCompatActivity;
import android.os.Bundle;
import java.lang.Exception;

> import timber.log.Timber;

Reviewer: I think that's the wrong import
